## Hotel Reservation System

#### This repository is part of the final project for "DS5110: Introduction to Data Management and Processing" at Northeastern University, Boston

## Contributors:
- Rohan Devasthale
- Krithika Iyer
- Rahul Chettri

## Repository Files

### SQL Files
- sql/functions.sql: This files contains the MySQL functions used in the application
- sql/main.sql: This file contains all the CREATE and INSERT statements for the tables in the application
- sql/procedures.sql: This file contains the stored procedures written in MySQL for the application
- sql/testing.sql: This file contains the testing calls for the functions and stored procedures
- sql/views.sql: This file contains the views in MySQL used for data analysis of the application

### Source Files
- src/config.py: This file contains information about the MySQL configs like username, password, dbname, host, etc
- src/connection.py: This file contains the code for connecting to the MySQL using python and pymysql
- src/customer_dashboard.py: This file contains code for UI and customer features
- src/login.py: This file contains the code for user login/register feature
- src/main.py: The main entry point of the application along with admin command line features
- src/visualization.py: This file contains code to generate data analytics for the application

### Resources
- resources/Final_ERD.pdf: The PDF of final Entity-Relationship Diagram.
- resources/database_schema_diagram.mkv: The database schema diagram generated by MySQL Workbench using reverse engineering
- resources/idmp-final-project-demo-recording.mkv: The recorded demo for the features of the application
- resources/IDMP_Final_Project_Report: The final project report 
- resources/IDMP Project Slides.pdf: The presentation slides for the project

## Required Python Libraries
- tkinter : `$pip install tk`. This is used for UI
- pymysql: `$pip install PyMySQL`. This is used to interact with MySQL using python 
- matplotlib: `$pip install matplotlib`. This is used to plot graphs and data analysis

## Notes
- Edit the `src/config.py` file to include your mysql credentials like username, password, host, port and dbname. The application will fail to run if this file is not edited to include your credentials.
- Create database in MySQL and create the tables. Further, insert the sample data in the tables after creation. The create statements and sample data is found in `sql/main.sql`
- Load the functions, stored procedures, triggers and views from `sql/functions.sql`, `sql/procedures.sql`, `sql/triggers.sql` and `sql/views.sql` respectively.
- Ensure that the roomAvailability table has the available dates set in future. Example, in order to reserve room with checkin date: 2023-12-08, there must be a roomAvailable for that date in the table pre-inserted. You can add rows to the table using MySQL insert statements.
- To register your account, you can click register and then login using those credentials. If you directly want to login, you must first insert `(username, password)` manually in MySQL by creating the auth table. The auth table can be created from the `sql/main.sql` file.
- We encourage you to watch the demo recording before trying out this application. 